I think that's what happened to it.
I don't think it ever... If it came into being, it sort of died a natural death and no one talked about it much after that semester where they were trying to promote it.
They'd have students come in and try to talk about why we should have it and that sort of thing.
Everyone would listen and be very respectful.
But most classrooms now, the teacher was totally in control.
No one ever went to the classroom and would want to be a problem kid or be a smart mouth.
That's what I was thinking about.
Yeah.
That whether they were called rules or not, I assume you were seldom, if ever, late.
And did you go to sleep in class?
Oh, yeah.
But you tried not to do it just openly.
Okay.
But we were all so fatigued out most of the time that it was...
We tried to stay awake the best we could and we tried to hide it if we got fatigued where we needed sleep.
But the attitude that we had in class was that the teachers had what we wanted.
Not necessarily to become smarter or to be scholarly, but they had a passing grade or grade good enough or whatever it was that students were looking for.
That's where it came from and we realized that and we never wanted to antagonize a teacher in any way and
It was natural for all of us at that time to think the teachers knew what was best for us, and we didn't have to pretend too much.
We just felt like they were in charge and we were the students, unlike today.
Did you feel that you got the grades you deserved?
I got the grades I think I was satisfied with.
I never tried for the next letter grade.
No, but did you get the grade that you felt you earned that was appropriate for
for the level of achievement.
Yeah, I knew where I was at all time and if I could make two points higher on the final and make a B as opposed to a C, I wouldn't stay up all night and study for the extra two points.
Whatever the grades were, I was not going to be in academics.
I knew that the difference in a B and a C was just whether or not I one night stayed up late and studied for the final.
In the overall scheme of things, was I smarter or dumber?
So I just, what the hell, just take the grade and run.
So, yeah, I think I got most of the grades I deserved.
One of the hardest courses I had back in those days was that ROTC.
Because they felt like they were trying to withhold it from you.
And they had your ticket to co-rift.
And they felt like if they can dangle that in front of you and just make it as miserable as they could, they were doing something good for mankind.
But we made it through that kind of stuff, too.
But really looking back, I think that's the only unfair situation that I recall is taking some Mickey Mouse set of courses like that and trying to make them so difficult.
Now you stayed with the architecture major from start to finish.
Right.
And you finished in five years?
Mm-hmm.
There was no question about those days.
You finished on schedule.
What did you think?
your career was going to be?
When you were an undergraduate, what did you think you were going to spend your life doing?
I thought I'd probably get a job in an architect's office and kick around in that and do well enough to make a living.
Let's see, and you, I'm looking at my notes, you never were party to some outrageous prank, legendary joke?
I really don't think
I really think not.
No.
You know, to me, I like a lot of little jokes and a little bit of minor harsh play, but to try to pull off some great big scandals type event, the stakes were too high to do that.
Like Fort Allbritton told me about a great one over in the new dorm area, right after it's finished, they had a sophomore that was really a bad egg, and the water faucet was outside the building right next to the room,
They sandbagged his door, put a water hose through the window, and put three feet of water in the room.
And it woke him up when it got up to where he was asleep.
And he said they didn't realize, though, who was going to have to clean that water up when they finally moved the sandbags from the door.
So he'd all let the freshmen have to clean up the whole door.
They did have a bad thing that happened when you were in school down here with water.
Yeah, Ross Hall, they ruined that building.
But that didn't turn me on.
I just thought that was childlike, and it was...
Like you say, you've got a job to clean up when it's over, and it's costly, and you could be kicked out of school for that.
As you look back, which were the important to your life?
Which were the most important courses in the effect they had on your life?
It's going to sound funny.
In high school, the most important course I took was typing.
since I've done so much of that kind of manuscript messing around with business since then.
But in college, well there had to be architecture courses because that's what I majored in and it helped with creativity and it helped with design work and it helped with recognizing good and bad features about your environment.
But that's just an apple pie answer.
You're looking for something dramatic and that's all I can come up with.
What changed your life was when you got the job down here and Dean Benson offered you a... He's talking about college.
I know.
Let's see.
Back to student days.
Did the MSC activities have a very important part of your student life?
Did you go to many of the events connected to the MSC?
No.
What about religious emphasis week?
Okay, let's go to Saturday night.
You and your buddies are here in town, and you're going to have a good time on Saturday night.
Only one thing to do is go to a movie.
That's it.
You all never went to anything more?
Where could I...
even though you might not have done it, where could I, if I were around then, where could I have gotten something strong to drink?
Well, when I first came to A&M, I went down to Youngbloods and got by ordering a beer every now and then.
Then they cracked down on it and it became more difficult.
And, you know, we had the old Triangle Drive-In where the guys with cars, and, God, they were in a minority-level hassle.
Guys with cars would pull up down the Triangle
whatever it's called, Tom's Barbecue, somewhere in that area.
Or the shack down there, what's it called?
Chicken oil.
And they'd pull up down there and the main reason they did is to flirt with the carhops.
You know, there were just no girls around.
So they'd sit down there and drink beer and stay there until midnight.
But I didn't have a car.
I didn't have the money to buy the beer.
I went old enough to buy the beer.
And what I just said describes 98% of people on campus.
So essentially for true entertainment, you can go over to MSE and just sort of shuffle around.
You know, what's the big deal about bowling?
You say, oh, I had a good night bowling last time.
No one cared about that.
And you shuffle around, they had a little reading library, and they had room for 20 students to do that.
So essentially you went to a movie.
And to this day there's not much more to do, is there?
Could you go to Guyon Hall then and see a movie?
Yeah.
That was probably the brightest spot of all when you could see a movie at Guyon Hall.
And I don't think they had them on every night, but on weekends they did.
And that was fun because you could raise cane and, you know, talk to the screen and yell roommate and all that kind of stuff.
So, you know, that sense of humor gave you sort of like an animal house where you could go there and just raise cane.
Was the campus theater going then?
Yeah.
But it was more exotic to go downtown to the palace?
Yeah, well, you know, how it is with films that have one here that you maybe already have seen or don't care about seeing, and the one down there is better.
So we didn't go down to Bryan just every week or every day, but when we did have an outing and said, we're going to have an outing, that's what you do is probably go to one of the movie houses.
Where did you catch your, if you're hitchhiking to go downtown Bryan, where did you hitchhike?
Where'd you stand?
They had common stands where you would hitchhike from and I think everything leaving College Station, I believe everything, was up at the old post office right across the street in what used to be A&M camera shop right across from where the Lupo's is now diving across on the corner standing right there and sometimes there'd be 30, 40 guys standing there to catch a ride.
And it was easy to catch a ride and somebody stopped, three or four of you could get in and you go down
And then on the way back you'd walk up to the corner where the old train station was in Bryan, which is that main street going through the main part of Bryan.
It's College Avenue I guess comes all the way and goes through Bryan.
So corner of across the street there where the old train station was and you catch a ride back and that wasn't hard to do.
Sometimes you have to wait 10 minutes or so.
Now and I understood that if we were out on the highway somewhere that there was an, that class rank didn't matter
at hitchhiking, it was when you got there, you got in line.
And that was done the same way in your era on these short runs.
And back to beer, was there a careful check on the minimum age of somebody buying beer at the Triangle?
Well, there were periods when it was casual.
Then they cracked down, it seems like that time I got here.
They cracked down on that and it got more difficult.
What if we wanted stronger than beer?
I don't know where to go.
Whiskey Bridge wasn't available?
It was there, but that was out of my league.
What did I want strong drink for?
I had my schedule totally full.
And I didn't want it in a dorm.
I didn't have a car.
What did you do?
Walk out there and walk back with it.
I was scared to death I'd get kicked out of school.
One time when we were coming back, my roommate and I were coming back from somewhere at night, up around Kern somewhere, and somebody had hit a cow or a deer on the road.
And they had a bottle in their car, and I think they gave it to us.
Or somehow we ended up with the bottle.
I think they were afraid to cop the time we found them with the bottle.
And we brought it home, and you know, I was scared to death.
We had that in the bottom dresser drawer and underwear and stuff way back in there.
And I said, man, they're going to know about this.
I just felt like those guys would find it.
And they'd call me in and run me out, and everything I'd done in college would be zeroed out.
We were a believer in rules in those days, and I was scared to death about getting caught.
How often did somebody wander into Hart Hall?
Again, with athletes, how often did somebody wander in that lived there that was drunk?
Oh, it'd be hard for me to say with the ramp system we had, because they could come in in a ramp next to us, and we'd never know about it.
But I would say that in my time of being there, I only saw it happen maybe a dozen times.
you're saying in four or five years.
So it was very unusual.
And by and large, there was no professional employee living there to check.
It was all self-controlled.
Nobody was there to catch you if you came in drunk.
For a while, they had an office down on the first floor that looked at
sort of across the street, looked out at that administration building over there, and I think an old boy used to play on the 39 football team, had an office there.
I don't know, I can't remember his name, but he was our tack officer, they called him, but he didn't spend a night there.
And we had our upperclassmen, and that was the structure of the quarter where the CEO of the outfit and the first sergeants, and those people were supposed to keep everything.
together and we didn't have anything called for.
Some celebrities that came to the campus to perform or speak that you remember?
Musicians, singers, speakers?
Charles Vaughton came over and gave some readings once.
We had a guy named Teller, one of the comic bomb fellas, he came down once.
Did you see or hear either of those?
Yeah.
What was your impression?
Well, I didn't know what Teller was talking about.
Charles Lawton gave some readings from the Bible and did a much better job than anybody else could have done probably.
But when it was all over he said, I think I might have been in bed and been better.
Had a better use of my time there.
And we had a few
singers, Johnny James, people like that there, our sweethearts.
I don't think Patti Page ever came, but she was real big in those times in those days.
And Johnny James was too.
Did any big orchestras come?
Yeah.
Now a lot of those things I didn't go to.
They were across the street where I could hit it with a rock from my dorm room at Gine Hall, and there I was at the Hart Hall.
And if you had to spare time,
Just having relaxation is the best use of your time of all.
And I went to a number of those shows, but it's sort of like the shows of the day that's been around the track a few times that you can live without them.
Yeah, they had all kind of... Yeah, we didn't have girls on.
I didn't have... Let me one more time.
I didn't have a car.
I didn't have any money.
I didn't even have a girl.
And, you know, by the time you got a girl down here and walked across, this is Timber Street.
I had my girlfriend down here when I was a freshman that stayed at the first block of Timber Street up here in a lady's house named Avery who lived there.
And that's where Timber Street ended.
All this wasn't here.
So these were cowlots.
So I took her bag and walked from way over in the middle of the campus to this woman's house to put her there.
Then I walked back to the dorm, and the next day I came back to the dorm, and the family was all over.
The weekend was going away.
She had to catch a bus to go back to TSEW, and all this cost money.
And it was, when it was over, I've always been sort of an analytical guy that I called, let's put the pencil to that.
I said, okay, here we go.
Bus down, meals done, rental for Ms.
Avery's house,
and a dance, and a ticket to that, and you add all this.
Man, it just doesn't make sense.
So I got to where I just quit doing that kind of thing because it just didn't make sense.
Like senior boots.
I never had senior boots on.
I got to the point where I tried somebody's boots on and put them on, pants, and how much are these, and what's that?
And I said, well, let's see.
If I had these, I'd wear them three times here and two times there, and then I'd have to worry about selling these damn things.
So by the time you, that's part of life.
that where you take fun out of life is being sort of sensible.
Right, now if you had not lived in Hart, if you had lived over in the court area, would anybody have teased you about not having senior boots?
Was that uncommon in your era?
It was uncommon they wouldn't tease you about it.
So that a few others did not have boots?
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
But it was uncommon.
You know, most guys say, well, senior boots, you know, by the time you go from a freshman, that's when they look sort of good,
up to one time you seen her, then you start saying, I saw a Mickey Mouse.
If it's part of the uniform, I'd sure wear them, but to buy them, then they outlaid $400 or so for boots and all the gear it takes, and you'd have that problem of getting rid of them.
Now you did go on court trips.
Yeah.
Is there anyone that stands out in your memory that you can share?
Some court trip where something unusual happened?
Plus or minus?
No, most everything I remember about court trips is completely negative.
You're back to some dollar and cent stuff.
You go to the hotel and everything is overpriced and any price will be overpriced.
For me, it was difficult and you had to hitchhike back and get a ride.
None of that stuff had the shine to it once you looked at it closely.
What did you and your buddies think about the band in those days?
Did you respect them?
Yeah.
The band in my day was a tough outfit.
They had their freshmen mixed in with the upperclassmen like in Hart Hall.
And they used to do a lot of ass beating in the band.
And I think they were trying to overly compensate for being band people.
In high school the band has always been thought of as sort of the people who are the non-athletes.
It's too bad it's that way, but it just is.
And they came down here and the band said, no, we're going to draw the line.
We're going to be the roughest outfit on campus.
And I think the band bragged about it more than they should have.
Oh, yeah, we beat ass all last night.
And I'm sure they did.
What campus student leadership position office had the highest prestige among other students?
being CO or first sergeant of an outfit in the Corps.
And that was more prestigious than being class president?
Hell yeah.
What about Corps commander?
A little bit easy to fall in that category where someone is picked that's not necessarily the selection of the Corps, but the ROTC people picked this guy out because of
column of stuff they added up of some sort.
So in not all cases were these guys the pick of the Corps.
And band commanders same way?
None of us except people in the band would really know how they did it over there.
Probably they were such a close-knit group and worked so close together and had so many drills we didn't have.
Maybe they were a little bit more selected based on their surviving
the structure they live within.
And we had some of those problems with being first sergeant CO's too.
I'm not sure how much input the student officers had as they left.
I think most of us ROTC selection completely.
But we always, they were in charge of your life.
That's the main reason we felt that way because you know the first sergeant
sets all the rules for the freshman and sophomore, and it sets the tone, and then the CO you sort of feel like is someone who's somewhat charged with accountability for you and what you do in the group your contemporaries do.
Now, did you ever aspire to one of those core leadership roles?
Oh, I think everybody did, but my grades in ROTC were not that good, I was trying to tell you, but
I had two buttons, but that wasn't a big deal.
You know, by the time you get there again, it's not as important as it is when you're a freshman looking upward at it.
Now, and by the time you get here, the World War II veterans are pretty well gone.
No, they're still getting in here.
Were they?
And where did they live?
Most of them lived down Military Walk.
Well, I have to take that back now.
The dorm next to the YMCA, is that Milner in there?
I think that room was, they had, when they brought people back from the annex, nearly all of the buildings were full of freshmen and corps.
Leggett was a corps dorm, they had three to a room in it.
And let's see, Milner I think is the one across from the old exchange store.
And there's one along the military walk there across the street from
Why would I ever get named that dorm?
Was Gathright still there?
No, Gathright was just a mound of brick that everybody exchanged to him.
There was a dorm right along the military walk that most of the veterans lived in, and I'm sure the numbers weren't as great.
But see, I started in 1950, and World War I ended in 1945, so even if everyone had good luck coming to A&M and went to school four years, there'd still be some ragtag people left over.
Were there some temporary trailers or barracks down beyond the football stadium still left?
Yeah.
For the GI couples.
Now, if you were married... That's what I mean.
A married student.
Now, that's easy, but I thought you were talking about unmarried.
No.
Yeah, the married students, they lived over here in this shack area.
Barracks area behind, what is that area called by the north gate over there, University and Texas Avenue, back in that area.
In the College View?
Yeah, that's called College View.
And then there were some barracks back over in this area here, and they had a lot of shotgun houses they just built, and they're still sort of halfway in existence.
Were the project houses where the youngsters from various counties on Jersey and Wilburn Road?
Yeah.
They were still there too.
They were still busy.
And of course all the faculty had these great big old houses that lived on campus too and they started moving those out I guess while I was here or maybe right at that time I graduated.
Did any of your buddies ever try to find dates locally?
Oh hell yeah, beautifully.
Yeah, a lot of them did.
They wasted a lot of time doing that too.
It was real easy to do a lot of looking.
All right, if a young man had a date, either local or out of town, and he wanted to take her to some special place off campus, where would it go?
Where would a special date have... I'm talking about now to eat or... They had a place, I forget the name of it, that was out here off the road.
Was it Franklin's?
Franklin's is out where the vet hospital is but you had to be 21 to get in out there because they serve alcoholic beverages and if you weren't 21 you know you didn't have a ticket so yeah you went to a movie that's all there is to do.
You could take them out to eat I guess but you know first you got to have a car and then you have the money to take them to eat.
Let's see while you were here summer jobs did you have any meaningful summer jobs?
Oh yes they were meaningful.
I sure did.
Yeah, let's see, I went home and I did everything going from farm work to, I had a job with the government for a couple summers surveying allotments for peanuts where you'd go out into farms and you'd take these aerial photographs and you'd map out where the peanut fields were and you'd take a planimeter and measure what the area is of that property to find out whether or not they're within there.
limits.
One summer, that was paid just enough to make several hundred dollars, which was considerable to go back to college with.
One summer I went to the East Coast to work on a pipeline.
That was all pipelines back in those days were built by southern boys.
Northerners, they wouldn't do that kind of work.
So we'd go up and build pipelines.
So I started off in Pennsylvania and ended up in Connecticut that summer.
And I made enough money that summer to pay my way through
The whole next year, that was pretty good pay.
That's $1.75 an hour, and that was big time money.
As you recall in round numbers, what did it cost to go to A&M?
I think I'm saying it pretty much straight when I say about $1,000 a year.
And you're talking about room, board, books, tuition, and homework?
Everything.
And one of the blessings, I presume, financially, was the opportunity to wear that uniform.
That clothing didn't add much to that cost.
You mean I could have lived cheaper wearing some other kind of clothes?
No.
That you couldn't have lived much cheaper since you could wear that uniform over and over and over and over.
Well, I never thought of clothing as much of a money saving.
We had a lot of cleaning bills we wouldn't have normally.
We could go to the laundry and just run something through and wear it.
We had to have it all starts and everything.
So our cleaning bills were substantial.
I thought you were talking maybe we made 90 cents a day our last two years by being in the court.
Oh, I forgot that, yeah.
And that was helpful.
Now, these summer jobs, did anybody at A&M help you get any of those jobs?
No.
So that there was no effort in that era to try to give you a summer architectural firm experience?
No, and of course we had one summer set aside, we had to go to ROTC camp until most of summer.
Alright, it's time for me to get out of here and let y'all have lunch.
But before, let's do the important part.
Tell, describe how Cadet Slouch came into being.
Was that while you were a student?
When I was a student, I guess that was my fourth year.
I was a five year architect, a five year major in architecture.
And my fourth year, I was my last year in the Corps.
It was that fall, I went over to
to the battalion office and just said, I've been drawing pictures for a long time.
Would you be interested in some kind of a cartoon contribution of some kind?
And they said, yeah, that'd be a good idea.
I want you to do something.
So I did, and I did a couple of cartoons.
And I said, how about having a character?
I said, well, that'd be good, too.
So then I started drawing this character.
I got, I guess, one of the first ones, Drew, hanging in the room in here.
I did that and named it Cadet Slouch and that's sort of how it got started and then I did it I guess until 1985 maybe, something like that, 1985 and then sort of let it drop off.
So you're saying about 30 years?
33 years, yeah.
Alright, did you think of any other possible names that you might have selected other than Slouch?
I don't remember if I did.
And did Slouch originally look and behave similarly to Slouch later?
Yeah, of course similar, but the evolution took place.
Sure.
As with all cartoon scripts, it refines out and the personality and the features look a little bit more streamlined as time goes by.
Now you didn't do this in high school.
You didn't do a... No, I did drawings, always done artwork and drawings and, you know, silly type drawings.
But I never had an ongoing strip or tried to tell a story or have a situation and a caption under it.
Was there anybody that you had in mind that was the model for Cadet Slouch?
Me.
Do you remember any Cadet Slouch cartoons that you did that somebody in a position of authority disliked?
You know, that was a funny situation.
I did several.
You know how you start doing that and you start to have a voice when you do a cartoon.
Words get you in trouble.
Cartoons, you get by a dam or anything.
And I did a couple of them trying to poke fun at somebody, nibble around the edges, and he's like, hey, won't you do some old so-and-so?
Yeah, go get him.
Like a schoolyard, you can whip him, go get in there and find him.
So they almost dared me to make fun of him.
one of the guys in ROTC, and I did one of these recognizable caricatures.
You know, he got up in class one time and said, you don't like to hear an arcades open, one of those sort of things.
I put him in print doing that.
You know, it got to be where everybody I had in class as a teacher wanted to be featured in it.
Oh, really?
Yeah, they kept saying, hey, you know, have you ever thought about doing one with this subject here?
I said, damn, that's strange, that's a subject you teach.
Well, you know, well,
And that became, it was amazing how everyone, if you spell their name right, you know, that's all they want.
Put me in there.
Did any dean or president or anything ever kind of give a sharp word to you about?
Never.
Never?
You never, President Rudder or Williams or anybody, never?
Or Dean Benson?
Never.
Okay, all right.
Of course, I never tried doing anything that was deserving of that.
I always tried to make things look sort of silly, but I didn't want to do anything that people would be ashamed of.
You did a cartoon for Ranger, when Ranger died.
Mr. Rudder's dog, you remember?
And you gave that cartoon to the Rudders.
Do you remember that?
I have, yeah.
What was your... Let's make believe now that we're...
the board of editors of the paper, and we're saying, describe the philosophy behind Slouch.
What were you trying to do with Cadet Slouch?
I guess what I was trying to do was figure out the next cartoon.
If you do it every day, that gets to be a strain.
You know, beat cymbals, swing your knees, play a violin, and beat the drum all at one time.
I never had time to do it right.
I was just barely getting by the next one.
So I had no philosophy as such except just reflecting what the campus was doing and what the students were doing and trying to, I guess, point out situations once in a while that could be easily corrected if you did.
Like the doors that were latched like we were talking about over there or some situation that wasn't
That could, by somebody who stroking a pen could make it better if you could do that.
That was the only good you could ever do.
And the rest of it was just making fun of the life we had.
But you were trying to bring a smile.